docs(security): rewrite security policy page (#155)
platform-mesh/platform-mesh.github.io: reference/security/index.md

[SECURITY.md]: https://github.com/platform-mesh/.github/blob/main/SECURITY.md

> ## Security Response Team

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case — but `Security Response Team` is the one defensible exception on this page if treated as a proper-noun team name. The body uses it as a defined entity ("A dedicated Security Response Team..."). Author's call whether to apply this suggestion or keep the capitals.

```suggestion
## Security response team
```

> A dedicated **Security Response Team** is responsible for all vulnerability-related activity. Responsibilities include receiving and acknowledging vulnerability reports, reviewing automated findings, coordinating fixes, publishing GitHub Security Advisories and CVEs, and communicating with reporters and users throughout the process.

Reviewer: Bold on first mention of "Security Response Team" is inconsistent with sibling reference pages (`reference/components/openfga.md`, `reference/security/scorecard.md`). Not a `STYLE.md` violation; just inconsistent. Optional fix — keep the bold if you're treating this as the canonical definition page for the term.

```suggestion
A dedicated Security Response Team is responsible for all vulnerability-related activity. Responsibilities include receiving and acknowledging vulnerability reports, reviewing automated findings, coordinating fixes, publishing GitHub Security Advisories and CVEs, and communicating with reporters and users throughout the process.
```

For an up-to-date list of all team members, see [the `platform-mesh/security` GitHub team](https://github.com/orgs/platform-mesh/teams/security).

> ## Staying Up to Date

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.

```suggestion
## Staying up to date
```

> Information about security fixes in Platform Mesh and updates to vulnerable dependencies is published in **the changelog** with each new release.

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Forbidden word: `new` without a specific version. Drop it for a present-tense factual statement.

```suggestion
Information about security fixes in Platform Mesh and updates to vulnerable dependencies is published in **the changelog** with each release.
```

Security fixes in Platform Mesh are also announced on the [`PlatformMesh-Announcement` mailing list](https://lists.neonephos.org/g/PlatformMesh-Announcement). For high and critical severity vulnerabilities, a pre-announcement is sent to the mailing list at least 24 hours before the release.

Users are encouraged to:

- [Subscribe to the mailing list](https://lists.neonephos.org/g/PlatformMesh-Announcement) to receive security announcements and pre-announcements.

> - [Subscribe to release notifications](https://github.blog/changelog/2018-11-26-watch-releases/) for the Platform Mesh repositories they use.

Reviewer: Reference voice in `STYLE.md` is "austere, third-person, no opinions". "Users are encouraged to" reads as a soft recommendation common in marketing-adjacent prose. A more direct framing matches the page's role and tone better; it also fixes the awkward shift where the lead-in is third-person passive but the bullets that follow are imperative ("Subscribe…").

```suggestion
To receive security announcements:

- [Subscribe to the `PlatformMesh-Announcement` mailing list](https://lists.neonephos.org/g/PlatformMesh-Announcement) for security announcements and pre-announcements.
- [Subscribe to release notifications](https://github.blog/changelog/2018-11-26-watch-releases/) for relevant Platform Mesh repositories.
```

> ## Reporting Vulnerabilities

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.

```suggestion
## Reporting vulnerabilities
```

Do **NOT**:

- Report potential security vulnerabilities through GitHub issues or other public channels
- Contact Security Response Team members directly

> **Instead, follow the process explained in the [SECURITY.md] file.**

Reviewer: Wrapping a full sentence in `**bold**` is unusual for VitePress reference prose. The previous version was unbolded plain prose, and the surrounding bullets and the "Do **NOT**:" lead-in already do the visual emphasis work. The full-sentence bold here doesn't add information.

```suggestion
Instead, follow the process explained in the [SECURITY.md] file.
```

Platform Mesh follows the principle of [Coordinated Vulnerability Disclosure](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_vulnerability_disclosure). Reporters are asked to:

- Allow reasonable time to investigate and address the issue before making any information public.
- Make a good faith effort to avoid privacy violations, data destruction, and disruption of services.
- Not exploit the vulnerability beyond what is necessary to verify it.

The Security Response Team commits to:

- Acknowledging receipt of the vulnerability report.
- Providing an estimated timeline for a fix.
- Notifying the reporter when the vulnerability is resolved.

> ## Handling Security Vulnerabilities

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.

```suggestion
## Handling security vulnerabilities
```

> ### Direct Vulnerability Reports

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.

```suggestion
### Direct vulnerability reports
```

> When a vulnerability report arrives, the Security Response Team reviews it and, if needed, takes action to fix or mitigate the vulnerability in a private fork of the affected repository. Once ready, the fix is included in the next release. For vulnerabilities rated high or critical, an out-of-band release is performed. The security fix may be backported to previous releases.

Reviewer: **Two issues on this line: forbidden modal `may` AND a quietly weakened backporting commitment.**

1. `STYLE.md` bans `may` for present-tense factual statements.
2. The previous text said "Depending on the affected repository's release policy, the security fix **is** backported to previous releases" — a definite statement conditioned on per-repo policy. The PR description says this was simplified to remove "a non-existent per-repository policy", but the actual change is from "is, conditional on policy" to "may be" (discretionary). For a reference page describing project commitments, that's a weakening, not just a simplification.

Could you confirm whether the project's intent is now genuinely discretionary, or whether the rewording was just meant to remove the broken reference without weakening the commitment? If the commitment stands, the suggestion below applies (restores "is backported" with the per-repo qualifier):

```suggestion
When a vulnerability report arrives, the Security Response Team reviews it and, if needed, takes action to fix or mitigate the vulnerability in a private fork of the affected repository. Once ready, the fix is included in the next release. For vulnerabilities rated high or critical, an out-of-band release is performed. Depending on the affected repository's release policy, the security fix is backported to previous releases.
```

**NOTE:** Reports that consist solely of automated scanner output — without proof that the vulnerability is reachable in Platform Mesh — require additional investigation before being treated as confirmed vulnerabilities. The Security Response Team evaluates whether the affected code path is actually invoked in Platform Mesh. If the vulnerability is confirmed to be reachable, it is handled as a confirmed vulnerability. If not, the reporter is notified and the report is closed.

> #### Low and Medium Severity Vulnerabilities

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.

```suggestion
#### Low and medium severity vulnerabilities
```

In most cases, vulnerabilities rated low or medium are **not** pre-announced. Full details are disclosed when the release containing the fix is published. Platform Mesh does not issue a CVE number for these vulnerabilities, but a GitHub Security Advisory is published alongside the release.

> #### High and Critical Severity Vulnerabilities

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case. Slug-compatibility note: VitePress slugifies headings to lowercase regardless of source case, so the existing internal anchor `#high-and-critical-severity-vulnerabilities` (line 76) resolves correctly with either casing. Reverting will not break the link.

```suggestion
#### High and critical severity vulnerabilities
```

Vulnerabilities rated high and critical are communicated differently from low and medium severity vulnerabilities:

- A security release pre-announcement is sent at least 24 hours before the release without disclosing details about the vulnerability
- Security releases are created according to the timeline stated in the pre-announcement

> - Details about vulnerabilities are published 24–48 hours after the security releases are created

Reviewer: Bullet punctuation inconsistency. The new lists in this page ("Reporters are asked to:" lines 40–42, "The Security Response Team commits to:" lines 46–48) end every bullet with a period; this list and the "Do **NOT**:" list (33–34) do not. All three are full sentences — pick one and apply it page-wide. Adding periods is the consistent choice given the new bullets:

```suggestion
- A security release pre-announcement is sent at least 24 hours before the release without disclosing details about the vulnerability.
- Security releases are created according to the timeline stated in the pre-announcement.
- Details about vulnerabilities are published 24–48 hours after the security releases are created.
```

Apply the same to the "Do **NOT**:" list at lines 33–34 for full consistency.

Both a CVE number and a GitHub Security Advisory are issued for these vulnerabilities.

> ### Vulnerabilities in Dependencies

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.

```suggestion
### Vulnerabilities in dependencies
```

Like every project that uses external dependencies, Platform Mesh is potentially vulnerable to issues discovered in those dependencies. In many cases, those vulnerabilities are not actually exploitable within Platform Mesh. To minimize risks, the project uses tooling that automatically updates affected dependencies when a vulnerability is discovered or published.

Updates to vulnerable dependencies are typically included in regular scheduled releases and communicated exclusively through the changelog. Vulnerabilities in dependencies that are rated high or critical and confirmed to be exploitable in Platform Mesh are an exception and are handled following the same process as [high and critical severity vulnerabilities](#high-and-critical-severity-vulnerabilities).

> Platform Mesh does not issue a CVE number or GitHub Security Advisory for vulnerabilities in dependencies, as one will already exist for the affected upstream project.

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Forbidden modal: `will`. Use a present-tense factual statement.

```suggestion
Platform Mesh does not issue a CVE number or GitHub Security Advisory for vulnerabilities in dependencies, because a CVE number or advisory already exists from the upstream project.
```

> ### Information Disclosure

Reviewer: [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.

```suggestion
### Information disclosure
```

Public disclosure happens through GitHub Security Advisories. Each advisory contains a description, affected versions, patched versions, and CVSS severity. For high and critical severity vulnerabilities, a CVE number is also issued. The fix is highlighted in the changelog under a dedicated **Security Fixes** section. The advisory is automatically published to the GitHub Advisory Database, so downstream projects are also notified via GitHub.

## Security Posture

> The Platform Mesh project runs regular automated checks to ensure a strong security posture in all user-facing repositories. OpenSSF Scorecard is used for this purpose. For more details, see the [OpenSSF Scorecard document](./scorecard.md).

Reviewer: **Two issues here.**

1. [STYLE.md] Headings use sentence case.
2. [STYLE.md] "Definition of done" requires every content page to end with a `## Related` section linking to its Diátaxis counterparts. The sibling page `reference/security/scorecard.md` has one; this page does not. Category landing pages (`reference/components/index.md`, `reference/resources/index.md`) omit it, but those are mostly nav stubs — this page is substantive prose, exactly the kind `STYLE.md` targets.

```suggestion
## Security posture

The Platform Mesh project runs regular automated checks to ensure a strong security posture in all user-facing repositories. OpenSSF Scorecard is used for this purpose. For more details, see the [OpenSSF Scorecard document](./scorecard.md).

## Related

- [OpenSSF Scorecard](./scorecard.md) — automated security posture checks for Platform Mesh repositories
- [SECURITY.md](https://github.com/platform-mesh/.github/blob/main/SECURITY.md) — the reporting process referenced throughout this page
```

Adjust the link list if you have other relevant cross-quadrant counterparts in mind (concept-level explanation, how-to guide, etc.).

Author: Applied manually.
